Hey guys, welcome back to the channel.
Today I'm going to show you how to
create a full PNG tuber using Pixel Lab
and set it up inside Veto Tube Mini in
just a few minutes. And yes, I'll be
voicing a dragon. Before we jump into
Pixel Lab, let's quickly understand how
Veto Tube works. Veto Tube switches
between images based on your microphone
input. So when you talk, it swaps to the
mouth open image. When you stop, it
switches back. And if you want blinking,
you just create alternate frames and
assign them. That's it. You basically
need four images. Closed mouth, eyes
open. Open mouth, eyes open. Closed
mouth, eyes closed. Open mouth, eyes
closed. That gives us talking and
blinking. Veto tube supports simple
floating and subtle motion effects.
Super lightweight, super simple. Now,
let's build one. I made this dragon on a
128x 128 canvas. You can use any size.
Pixel Lab doesn't care, but 128x 128 is
a really solid PNG tuber size. Now,
here's the workflow. Once your base
character is finished, we go to Impaint.
So, let's go to the Pixel Lab tools and
select Impaint and Impaint V3. And I'll
start by prompting what I want, which is
simply an open mouth. Now, I'll draw
over the area I want to change.
I'll select new frame as the output.
I'll check remove background and hit
generate. And there we go. A really nice
generation. Now it's a matter of doing
the small manual cleanups and move on.
For the blinking frames, there's two
ways to go about it. You could manually
draw it like I'm doing right now, which
is pretty doable even if you're not a
pixel artist just like me. But of
course, sometimes you want a better look
than what you can draw. So we'll go over
that in a bit. So, pretty much you want
a duplicate of your closed mouth
character with closed eyes and another
one of the open mouth with closed eyes.
An easy task, but super cool. Now that
you're done with your four frames, it's
time to export. So, go to export file in
a sprite. Select all frames for the
output. Make sure to export as PNG. And
I always try to go with the biggest
size, so 1,000%. And just hit export.
Now let's move to VTO tube so we can
actually use it. So here we are in VTO
tube and it's as simple as clicking
close mouth image and selecting your
image and that's going to be our default
state. Now select the openmouth image
and then the same deal with the blinking
frames. After you're done with that, you
can of course select the effects you
want from Veto Tube and also change the
background color or put it as
transparent depending on your needs.
Now, let's actually create one from
scratch. I'm going to use a 64x 64
canvas, and I'll use create image small
to XL Pro. Why pro? Because at 64x 64,
we get 16 variations to choose from.
Prompt: Ztuber avatar of a cute woman
wearing kitty purple headphones with a
streamer microphone floating on a cloud.
Generate. Now, we can pick our favorite.
Let's say we want her to blink. I could
draw a few pixels to fake closed eyes.
And honestly, at 64x 64, that works
fine. But if we want something cleaner,
we go to inpaint, select the eyes,
prompt, closed eyes, generate. Much
better. Now for the open mouth. Since
this is small resolution, I'll just
manually draw it. Small canvases are
forgiving. And now we have our four
frames. I'm just going to select the
four frames since I have all the other
variants of the girl. And I'll go to
export, set the size, make sure it's
PNG, not a GIF. And in the frame
section, I'll choose selected frames and
hit export. And now again, we just have
to set each frame in the right place,
and we're good to talk.
>> So now your dream of becoming a
pixelated PNG tuber can become real.
>> Now, let's level up. I'll create a 256x
256 character. I'll prompt a VTuber
avatar of a blue monster Kauaii with a
mage hat and wearing a superhero outfit.
Important note, at 256x 256, small to XL
gives us one image instead of 16, just
so you know. Now, here's the pro trick.
Instead of generating each state
separately, I'll impaint the eyes and
mouth together. So, I'll prompt open
mouth and closed eyes and I'll draw over
the areas I want to imperate.
Now, I copy just the eyes and mouth from
that result. Then, duplicate my original
frame. Paste the new parts. And now I
can mix and match to create all of the
versions. Now, one last time, export
your sprites, import to veto tube, and
that's it. No rigging, no animation
timeline, just smart use of InPaint.
Pixel Lab makes it insanely easy to
modify parts of your character without
redrawing everything. If you want more
tutorials like this, let me know what
we're building next. See you in the next